65:1 | O (nation of the) Prophet, if you divorce your wives, divorce them after (the end of their) menstrual cycle. Count their waiting period and fear Allah your Lord. Do not drive them from their homes or let them go away unless they commit a proven immorality. Such are the bounds set by Allah, he that exceeds the bounds of Allah wrongs himself. You do not know, perhaps after that Allah will bring a new event.
65:2 | When they have reached their term, either keep them honorably or part from them honorably. Call two honest men among you to witness and give yourwitnessing before Allah. Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day is warned to do this. Whosoever fears Allah, He will appoint for him a way out,
65:3 | and provide for him from where he does not expect, Allah is Sufficient for whosoever puts his trust in Him. Indeed, Allah brings about whatever He decrees. Allah has set a measure for all things.
65:4 | As for your women who have despaired of further menstruating, if you are in doubt, then their waiting period is three months as well as those who have not yet menstruated. As for those who are pregnant, their term shall be the time they deliver their burden. Allah will ease (matters) by His order for whosoever fears Him.
65:5 | Such is the command of Allah that He has sent down to you. Whosoever fears Allah shall be relieved of his sins and given a mighty wage.
65:6 | Lodge them in your home according to your means. Do not harass them so as to (make life) difficult for them. If they are with child, spend upon them until they deliver their burden; and if they suckle give them their wage and consult together honorably. But if you both make difficulties, let another woman suckle for him.
65:7 | Let the rich spend according to his wealth and for he whose provision is little, let him spend from what Allah has given him. Allah does not charge a soulexcept with that He has given him. Surely, Allah will bring ease after difficulty.
65:8 | How many a village has turned in its pride against the Order of their Lord and His Messengers! We made it a stern reckoning, and punished it with a horrible punishment.
65:9 | So it tasted the mischief of its action, and the end of its matter was loss.
65:10 | Allah has prepared a severe punishment for them. So those possessing understanding fear Allah. Believers, Allah has sent this down for you as a Reminder,
65:11 | a Messenger reciting to you the verses, clear verses of Allah, so that he may bring forth those who believe and do good deeds from the darkness into thelight. Whosoever believes in Allah and does good deeds He will admit to Gardens underneath which rivers flow where they shall live for ever and ever. For those, Allah has made a goodly provision.
65:12 | It is Allah who has created the seven heavens, and of the earth their like, and the Command descends between them so that you know Allah is powerful over all things, and that Allah encompasses everything in knowledge.
