3:1 | AlifLaamMeem.
3:2 | Allah! There is no god except He, the Living, the Everlasting.
3:3 | He has sent down to you the Book with the truth, confirming what preceded it; and He has sent down the Torah and the Gospel (of Prophet Jesus which has been lost)
3:4 | before, as a guidance for people, and He sent down the Criterion. As for those who disbelieve in the verses of Allah, for them is an intense punishment. Allah is Mighty, Owner of Vengeance.
3:5 | Nothing on earth or in heaven is hidden from Allah.
3:6 | It is He who shapes you in your mothers' wombs as He wills. There is no god except Him, the Almighty, the Wise.
3:7 | It is He who has sent down to you the Book. Some of its verses are precise in meaning they are the foundation of the Book and others obscure. Those whose hearts are swerving with disbelief, follow the obscure desiring sedition and desiring its interpretation, but no one knows its interpretation except Allah. Those who are wellgrounded in knowledge say: 'We believe in it, it is all from our Lord. And none remember except those who are possessed of minds.
3:8 | Lord, do not cause our hearts to swerve after You have guided us. Grant us Your Mercy. You are the Embracing Giver.
3:9 | Lord, You will surely gather all the people for a Day that will come in which there is no doubt' Allah will not break His promise.
3:10 | Those who disbelieve, neither their riches nor their children shall save them from Allah. They shall become the fuel of the Fire.
3:11 | Like Pharaoh's people and those before them who belied Our revelations; Allah seized them in their sinfulness. Allah is firm in inflicting punishment.
3:12 | Say to those who disbelieve: 'You shall be overcome and gathered into Gehenna (Hell), an evil cradling'
3:13 | Indeed, there was a sign for you in the two armies which met on the battlefield. One was fighting in the way of Allah, and another unbelieving. They (the believers) saw with their eyes that they were twice their own number. Allah strengthens with His victory whom He will. Surely, in that there was a lesson for those possessed of eyes.
3:14 | Decorated for people are the desires of women, offspring, and of heaped up piles of gold and silver, of pedigree horses, cattle, and sown fields. These are the enjoyments of the worldly life, but with Allah is the best return.
3:15 | Say: 'Shall I tell you of a better thing than that? For the cautious with their Lord, theirs shall be Gardens underneath which rivers flow, where they shall live for ever, and purified spouses, and pleasure from Allah' Allah is watching over His worshipers.
3:16 | Those are they who say: 'Lord, we believe in You, forgive us our sins and save us from the punishment of the Fire',
3:17 | who are patient, truthful, obedient, and charitable, and who ask forgiveness at dawn.
3:18 | Allah bears witness that there is no god except He, and so do the angels and the knowledgeable. He upholds justice there is no god except He, the Mighty, the Wise.
3:19 | The only religion with Allah is Islam (submission). Those to whom the Book was given disagreed among themselves only after knowledge had been given to them being insolent among themselves. He who disbelieves the verses of Allah indeed Allah is Swift in reckoning.
3:20 | If they argue with you, say: 'I have submitted my face to Allah and so have those who follow me' To those who have received the Book (Jews and Nazarenes) and to the ignorant, ask: 'Have you submitted yourselves to Allah' If they became Muslims they were guided, if they turn away, then your only duty is to warn them. Allah is watching over all His worshipers.
3:21 | Those who disbelieve the verses of Allah and slay the Prophets unjustly, and slay those who bid to justice give them the glad tidings of a painful punishment!
3:22 | Their works shall be annulled in this world and in the Everlasting Life, and there shall be none to help them.
3:23 | Have you not seen those who have received a portion of the Book being called to the Book of Allah, that it might judge between them, and some turned away, swerving aside.
3:24 | For they say: 'The Fire will not touch us except for a certain number of days' And the lies they forged have deluded them in their religion.
3:25 | How will it be when We gather them for a Day in which there is no doubt, when every soul will be given what it has earned and they will not be wronged?
3:26 | Say: 'O Allah, Owner of the Kingdom. You give the kingdom to whom You will, and take it away from whom You will, You exalt whom You will and abase whom You will. In Your Hand is good, You have power over all things.
3:27 | You cause the night to enter into the day, and the day to enter into the night. You bring forth the living from the dead and the dead from the living. You provide without reckoning to whom You will'
3:28 | The believers should not take the unbelievers as guides in preference to the believers he who does this does not belong to Allah in anything, unless you have a fear of them. Allah warns you to be cautious of Him, the arrival is to Allah.
3:29 | Say: 'Whether you hide what is in your hearts or reveal it, Allah knows it. He knows all that is in the heavens and earth and has power over all things'
3:30 | The Day that every soul shall find what it has done of good brought forward, and what it has done of evil, it will wish if there were only a far space between it and that (Day). Allah warns you to be wary of Him; and Allah is Gentle with His worshipers.
3:31 | Say (Prophet Muhammad): 'If you love Allah, follow me and Allah will love you, and forgive your sins. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful'
3:32 | Say: 'Obey Allah and the Messenger' But if they turn away, then truly, Allah does not love the unbelievers.
3:33 | Allah chose Adam and Noah, the House of Abraham and the House of Imran above all worlds.
3:34 | They were the offspring of one another. Allah is Hearing, and Knowing.
3:35 | (Remember) when the wife of 'Imran said: 'Lord, I have vowed to You in dedication that which is hidden inside me. Accept this from me. You are the Hearer, the Knower'
3:36 | And when she was delivered of her, she said: 'Lord, I have given birth to her, a female' Allah knew of what she had given birth the male is not like the female 'and I have called her Mary. Protect her and all her descendants from satan, the stoned one'
3:37 | Her Lord graciously accepted her. He made her grow with a fine upbringing and entrusted her to the care of Zachariah. Whenever Zachariah went to her in the sanctuary, he found that she had provision with her. 'Mary' he said, 'how does this come to you' 'It is from Allah' she answered. Truly, Allah provides whomsoever He will without reckoning.
3:38 | Thereupon Zachariah supplicated to his Lord, saying: 'Lord, give me from You a good offspring. You hear all prayers'
3:39 | And the angels called out to him when he was standing in the sanctuary worshipping, saying: 'Allah gives you glad tidings of John, who shall confirm a Word from Allah. He shall be a master and chaste, a Prophet and from the righteous'
3:40 | He said: 'Lord, how shall I have a son when I am overtaken by old age and my wife is barren' He said: 'Even so, Allah does what He will'
3:41 | He said: 'Lord, appoint for me a sign' He said: 'Your sign is that you shall not speak to people except by signs for three days' And remember your Lord abundantly, exalt Him in the evening and at the dawn'
3:42 | And when the angels said to Mary: 'Allah has chosen you and purified you. He has chosen you above all women of the worlds.
3:43 | Mary, be obedient to your Lord, prostrate and bow with those who bow'
3:44 | This is from the news of the unseen. We reveal it to you (Prophet Muhammad). You were not present when they cast their quills to see which of them should look after Mary, nor were you present when they were disputing.
3:45 | When the angels said: 'O Mary, Allah gives you glad tidings of a Word (Be) from Him, whose name is Messiah, Jesus, the son of Mary. He shall be honored in this world and in the Everlasting Life and he shall be among those who are close.
3:46 | He shall speak to people in his cradle and when he is aged, and shall be among the righteous'
3:48 | He will teach him the Book, the Wisdom, the Torah and the Gospel,
3:50 | Likewise confirming the Torah that has been before me and to make lawful to you some of the things you have been forbidden. I bring you a sign from your Lord, therefore, fear Allah and obey me.
3:52 | When (Prophet) Jesus felt their disbelief, he said: 'Who will be my helpers in the way of Allah' The disciples replied: 'We are the helpers of Allah. We believe in Allah. Bear witness that we are submitters (Muslims).
3:53 | Lord, we have believed in what You sent down and followed the Messenger. Write us among Your witnesses'
3:54 | They devised, and Allah devised. And Allah is the Best Devisor.
3:55 | Allah said' (Prophet) Jesus, I will take you to Me and will raise you to Me, and I will purify you from those who disbelieve. I will make your followers (who died before Prophet Muhammad) above those who disbelieve till the Day of Resurrection. Then, to Me you shall all return, and I shall judge between you as to that you were at variance.
3:56 | As for those who disbelieve, I will sternly punish them in this world and in the Everlasting Life, there shall be none to help them.
3:57 | As for those who believe and do good works, He will pay them their wages in full. Allah does not love the harmdoers.
3:58 | This, We recite to you of the verses and the Wise Remembrance.
3:60 | The truth is from your Lord, therefore, do not be among the doubters.
3:61 | Those who dispute with you concerning him after the knowledge has come to you, say: 'Come, let us gather our sons and your sons, our womenfolk and your womenfolk, ourselves and yourselves. Then let us humbly pray, so lay the curse of Allah upon the ones who lie'
3:62 | This is indeed the truthful narration. There is no god except Allah. It is Allah who is the Almighty, the Wise.
3:63 | If they turn away, Allah knows the evildoers.
3:64 | Say: 'People of the Book, let us come to a common word between us and you that we will worship none except Allah, that we will associate none with Him, and that none of us take others for lords besides Allah' If they turn away, say: 'Bear witness that we are Muslims'
3:65 | People of the Book, why do you dispute about Abraham when both the Torah and the Gospel were not sent down till after him? Have you no sense?
3:66 | Indeed, you have disputed about that which you have knowledge. Why then dispute about that of which you have no knowledge? Allah knows and you do not know.
3:67 | No, Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Nazarene. He was of pure faith, a submitter (Muslim). He was never of the idolaters.
3:68 | Surely, the people who are nearest to Abraham are those who followed him, and this Prophet (Muhammad), and those who believe. Allah is the Guardian of the believers.
3:69 | Some of the People of the Book wish to make you go astray, but they lead none astray except themselves, though they do not sense it.
3:70 | People of the Book! Why do you disbelieve the verses of Allah while you are witness?
3:71 | People of the Book! Why do you confound truth with falsehood, and knowingly hide the truth?
3:72 | Some of the People of the Book say: 'Believe in that which is sent down to those who believe at the beginning of the day and disbelieve at the end of it, so that they will return.
3:73 | Believe none except those who follow your own religion' Say: 'The true guidance is the Guidance of Allah that anyone should be given the like of what you have been given, or dispute with you before your Lord' Say: 'Bounty is in the Hand of Allah' He gives it to whomsoever He will. Allah is the Embracer, the Knower.
3:74 | He singles out for His Mercy whom He will. And Allah is of abundant bounty.
3:76 | Rather, those who keep their promise and fear Allah Allah loves the cautious.
3:77 | Those who sell the promise of Allah and their own oaths for a little price shall have no share in the Everlasting Life. Allah will neither speak to them, nor look at them, nor purify them on the Day of Resurrection. Theirs shall be a painful punishment.
3:78 | And there is a sect among them who twist their tongues with the Book, so you will think it is from the Book, whereas it is not from the Book. They say: 'This is from Allah' whereas it is not from Allah. And they knowingly tell lies against Allah.
3:79 | No human to whom Allah has given the (Holy) Book, Judgement and Prophethood would say to the people: 'Be worshipers of me, other than Allah' But rather, 'Be of the Lord, for that you teach the Book, and in that you have studied'
3:80 | Nor would he order you to take the angels and the Prophets for lords, what, would he order you with disbelief after you were submitters (Muslims)!
3:81 | And when Allah took the covenant of the Prophets: 'That I have given you of the Book and Wisdom. Then there shall come to you a Messenger (Muhammad) confirming what is with you, you shall believe in him and you shall support him to be victorious, do you agree and take My load on this' They answered: 'We do agree' Allah said: 'Then bear witness, and I will be with you among the witnesses'
3:82 | Whosoever turns back after that, they are the transgressors.
3:83 | Are they seeking a religion other than that of Allah, and to Him whosoever is in the heavens and the earth has submitted willingly and unwillingly. To Him they shall be returned.
3:84 | Say: 'We believe in Allah and in what is sent down to us and in that which was sent down to Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob and the tribes, and in that which was given to (Prophets) Moses and Jesus, and the Prophets from their Lord. We do not differentiate between any of them. To Him we are submitters (Muslims)'
3:85 | He who chooses a religion other than Islam, it will not be accepted from him, and in the Everlasting Life he will be among the losers.
3:86 | How shall Allah guide a people who lapse into disbelief after they believed and bore witness that the Messenger is true, and after receiving clear proofs! Allah does not guide the harmdoers.
3:87 | Those, their recompense shall be the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people
3:88 | there they shall live for ever. Their punishment shall not be lightened, nor shall they be given respite.
3:89 | Except those who afterwards repent and mend their ways, Allah is Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
3:90 | Indeed those who disbelieve after they have believed and increase in disbelief, their repentance shall not be accepted. These are those who are astray.
3:91 | As for those who disbelieve and die unbelievers, there shall be not accepted from anyone of them, the whole earth full of gold, if he would ransom himself thereby. Those, for them there is a painful punishment, and none shall help them.
3:92 | You shall not attain righteousness until you spend of what you love. Whatever you spend is known to Allah.
3:93 | All food was lawful to the Children of Israel except what Israel forbade himself before the Torah had been sent down. Say: 'Bring the Torah and recite it, if you are truthful'
3:94 | Those who after this invent lies about Allah are harmdoers.
3:95 | Say: 'Allah has said the truth. Follow the Creed of Abraham, he was of pure faith, and not an idolater'
3:96 | The first House ever to be built for people was that at Bakkah (Mecca) blessed and a guidance for the worlds.
3:97 | In it, there are clear signs; the station where Abraham stood. Whoever enters it let him be safe. Pilgrimage to the House is a duty to Allah for all who can make the journey. And whosoever disbelieves, Allah is Rich, independent of all the worlds.
3:98 | Say: 'People of the Book, why do you disbelieve the verses of Allah? Surely, Allah is witness to all that you do'
3:99 | Say: 'People of the Book, why do you bar he who believes from the Path of Allah and seek to make it crooked, when you yourselves are witnesses? Allah is not inattentive of what you do'
3:100 | Believers, if you obey a sect of those who were given the Book, they will turn you into unbelievers after you have believed.
3:101 | How can you disbelieve when the verses of Allah are recited to you and His Messenger is among you! He who holds fast to Allah shall be guided to the Straight Path.
3:102 | Believers, fear Allah as He should be feared, and do not die except as Muslims.
3:103 | And hold fast to the Bond of Allah, together, and do not scatter. Remember the Favor of Allah bestowed upon you when you were enemies, and how He united your hearts, so that by His Favor you became brothers. And how He saved you from the Pit of Fire when you were on the brink of it. And so Allah makes plain to you His verses, in order that you will be guided.
3:104 | Let there be one nation of you that shall call to righteousness, ordering honor, and forbidding dishonor. Those are the prosperous.
3:105 | Do not follow the example of those who became divided and differed with one another after clear proofs had come to them. For those, there is a great punishment.
3:106 | The Day when faces will be whitened and faces blackened. To those whose faces have become blackened it will be said: 'Did you disbelieve after you had believed? Then taste the punishment for that you disbelieved'
3:107 | As for those whose faces will be whitened, they shall be in the Mercy of Allah for ever.
3:108 | Such are the verses of Allah, We recite them to you with truth. Allah does not want injustice for the worlds.
3:109 | To Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. To Him all matters shall return.
3:110 | You are the best nation ever to be brought forth for people. You order honor and forbid dishonor, and you believe in Allah. Had the People of the Book believed, it would have surely been better for them. Some of them are believers, but most of them are evildoers.
3:111 | They will not harm you except a little hurt. And if they fight against you, they will turn their backs. Then they will not be victorious.
3:112 | Abasement shall be pitched upon them wherever they are found, except they are in a bond from Allah, and a bond of the people. They have incurred theAnger of Allah and have been humiliated, because they disbelieved the verses of Allah and unjustly slew His Prophets and because they disobeyed and were transgressors.
3:113 | Yet they are not all alike. There are among the People of the Book an upstanding nation that recite the verses of Allah (the Koran) throughout the night and prostrate themselves,
3:114 | who believe in Allah and the Last Day, who order honor and forbid dishonor and race in good works. These are the righteous.
3:115 | Whatever good they do, for them it shall not be denied. Allah knows the cautious.
3:116 | As for those who disbelieve, neither their riches nor their children shall help them a thing from Allah. They are the people of the Fire, and there they shall remain for ever.
3:117 | The wealth they spend in this worldly life is like a freezing wind that smites the harvest of a people who have wronged themselves and destroys it. Allah has not wronged them, but they wronged themselves.
3:118 | Believers, do not take intimates with other than your own. They spare nothing to ruin you, they yearn for you to suffer. Hatred has already shown itself from their mouths, and what their chests conceal is yet greater. Indeed, We have made clear to you the signs, if you understand.
3:119 | There you are loving them, and they do not love you. You believe in the entire Book. When they meet you they say: 'We, believe' But when alone, they bite their fingertips at you out of rage. Say: 'Die in your rage! Allah has knowledge of what is in your chests'
3:120 | When you are touched with good fortune, they grieve, but when evil befalls you, they rejoice. If you are patient and cautious, their guile will never harm you. Allah encompasses what they do.
3:121 | And when you went out at dawn from your family to lodge the believers in their positions for the battle. Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
3:122 | Two parties of you were about to fail, though Allah was their Guardian, and in Allah believers put all their trust.
3:123 | And Allah most assuredly helped you at Badr when you were humiliated. Therefore, fear Allah, in order that you will give thanks to Him.
3:124 | When you said to the believers: 'Is it not enough for you that your Lord should reinforce you with three thousand angels sent down upon you?
3:125 | Rather, if you have patience and are cautious, and they suddenly come against you, your Lord will reinforce you with five thousand marked angels'
3:126 | Allah did not make this to be except as glad tidings for you, so that your hearts might be comforted. Victory comes only from Allah, the Mighty, the Wise.
3:127 | And that He might cut off a part of those who disbelieve or suppress them, so that they will turn back, disappointed.
3:128 | No part of the matter is yours whether He turns towards them or punishes them. They are harmdoers.
3:129 | To Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. He forgives whom He will and punishes whom He will. Allah is Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
3:130 | Believers, do not consume usury, doubled and redoubled, and fear Allah, in order that you shall prosper.
3:131 | Guard yourselves against the Fire prepared for unbelievers.
3:132 | Obey Allah and the Messenger in order to be subjected to mercy.
3:133 | And hasten to a forgiveness from your Lord and a Paradise as wide as heaven and earth, prepared for the cautious
3:134 | who spend in prosperity and in adversity, for those who curb their anger and those who forgive people. And Allah loves the charitable
3:135 | and those who, if they commit indecency or wrong themselves remember Allah and ask forgiveness of their sins for who but Allah forgives sins and those who do not persist in what they do while they know.
3:136 | Those, their recompense is forgiveness from their Lord and Gardens underneath which rivers flow, where they shall live for ever. How excellent is the wage of those who labor.
3:137 | There have been examples before you. Journey in the land and see what was the fate of the liars.
3:138 | This is a declaration to the people, a guidance and an admonition to the cautious.
3:139 | Do not be weak, neither sorrow while you are the upper ones, if you are believers.
3:140 | If a wound touches you, a similar wound already has touched the nation. Such days We alternate between the people so that Allah knows those who believe, and that He will take witnesses from among you, for Allah does not love the harmdoers,
3:141 | and so that Allah will examine those who believe and efface the unbelievers.
3:142 | Did you suppose that you would enter Paradise without Allah knowing those of you who struggled and who were patient?
3:143 | You used to wish for death before you met it, so you have seen it while you were looking.
3:144 | Muhammad is not except a Messenger; Messengers have passed away before him. If he dies or is killed, will you turn about on your heels? And he who turns on his heels will not harm Allah a thing. Allah will recompense the thankful.
3:145 | It is not for any soul to die except by the permission of Allah a postponed book and he who desires the reward of this world, We shall give him of it, and he who desires the reward of the Everlasting Life, We shall give him of it. And We will recompense the thankful.
3:146 | There has been many a Prophet with whom many of the Lord have fought and they did not faint when they were smitten in the way of Allah, neither did they weaken, nor did they humble themselves, and Allah loves the patient.
3:147 | Their only words were: 'Lord, forgive us our sins and that we exceeded in our affair, make us firm of foot and give us victory over the unbelievers'
3:148 | And Allah gave them the reward of this life, and the best reward of the Everlasting Life. Allah loves the gooddoers.
3:149 | Believers, if you obey those who disbelieve they will turn you upon your heels and you will turn to be losers.
3:150 | But Allah is your Sponsor. He is the Best of victors.
3:151 | We will throw terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. For that they have associated with Allah that which He did not send down for a proof. Fire shall be their home, evil indeed is the dwellingplace of the harmdoers.
3:152 | Allah has been true in His promise towards you when you routed them by His leave, until you lost heart, and quarreled about the matter, and disobeyed, afterHe had shown you that which you loved. Some among you wanted the world, and some among you wanted the Everlasting Life. Then He made you turn away from them in order to test you. But He has forgiven you, for Allah is Bounteous to the believers.
3:153 | And when you were going up, and paid no heed for anyone, and the Messenger was calling you from behind; so He rewarded you with grief upon grief that you might not sorrow for what escaped you neither for what smote you. And Allah is Aware of what you do.
3:154 | Then, after sorrow, He sent down upon you safety. Slumber overtook a party, while another party cared only for themselves, thinking of Allah thoughts that were not true, the guess of ignorance, saying: 'Have we any say in the affair' Say: 'The entire affair belongs to Allah' They conceal in themselves what they do not disclose to you. They say: 'If we had any say in the affair we should not have been killed here' Say: 'Had you stayed in your homes, those of you for whom slaying was written would have come out to their (death) beds so that Allah might try what was in your chests and that He will examine what is in your hearts' And Allah knows the innermost of the chests.
3:155 | Those of you who turned away on the day when the two armies met must have been seduced by satan on account of some of what they had earned. But Allah has pardoned them. He is Forgiving and Clement.
3:156 | Believers, do not be as those who disbelieve and say of their brothers when they journey in the land or go of to battle: 'Had they stayed with us, they would not have died, nor would they have been killed' In order that Allah will make that a regret in their hearts. Allah revives and causes to die. He has knowledge of what you do.
3:157 | If you should be killed in the way of Allah or die, the Forgiveness and Mercy from Allah would surely be better than all you amass.
3:158 | And if you die or are killed, before Allah you shall all be gathered.
3:159 | It was by that Mercy of Allah that you (Prophet Muhammad) dealt so leniently with them. Had you been harsh and hardhearted, they would have surely deserted you. Therefore, pardon them and ask forgiveness for them. Take counsel with them in the matter and when you are resolved, put your trust in Allah. Allah loves those who trust.
3:160 | If Allah helps you, none can overcome you. If He forsakes you, who then can help you after Him? Therefore, in Allah let the believers put all their trust.
3:161 | It is not for a Prophet to defraud, whosoever defrauds shall bring that fraud on the Day of Resurrection. Then, every soul shall be paid in full what it has earned, and they shall not be wronged.
3:162 | Is he who follows the pleasure of Allah like he who is laden with the Anger of Allah, Gehenna (Hell) shall be his shelter. Evil shall be his return!
3:163 | They are in ranks with Allah. Allah sees what they do.
3:164 | Allah has surely been gracious to the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves to recite to them His verses, to purify them, and to teach them the Book and the Wisdom (prophetic sayings), though before that they were in clear error.
3:165 | Why, when an affliction hits you and that you had yourselves inflicted twice the like of it, you said: 'How is this' Say: 'This is from your own selves' Surely, Allah has power over all things.
3:166 | What hit you the day the two armies met was by the permission of Allah, so that He might know the believers
3:167 | and that He might know the hypocrites' When it was said to them: 'Come, fight or repel in the way of Allah' They replied: 'If only we knew how to fight, we would follow you' On that day, they were nearer to disbelief than belief. They said with their mouths what was not in their hearts. And Allah knows what they hide.
3:168 | Who said to their brothers and they themselves had stayed behind 'Had they obeyed us, they would not have been killed' Say to them: 'Avert death from yourselves then, if what you say is true'
3:169 | You must not think that those who were killed in the way of Allah are dead. But rather, they are alive with their Lord and have been provided for,
3:170 | rejoicing in the Bounty that Allah has given to them and having glad tidings in those who remain behind and have not joined them, for no fear shall be on them neither shall they sorrow,
3:171 | having glad tidings of a Favor and Bounty from Allah. Allah will not waste the wage of the believers.
3:172 | Those who answered Allah and the Messenger after the wound had afflicted them, for those of them who did good and were cautious there is a great wage.
3:173 | Those to whom the people said: 'The people have gathered against you, therefore fear them' but it increased them in belief and they said: 'Allah is Sufficient for us. He is the Best Guardian'
3:174 | So, they returned with the Favor and Bounty of Allah so evil did not touch them. They followed the pleasure of Allah, and Allah is of Great Bounty.
3:175 | That is satan frightening those whom he sponsored. So do not fear them, and fear Me, if you are believers.
3:176 | Do not let those who race in disbelief sadden you. They will not harm Allah a thing. Allah does not want to give them a share in the Everlasting Life. For them is a great punishment.
3:177 | Those who buy disbelief with belief will not harm Allah a thing, for them there is a painful punishment!
3:178 | Do not let those who disbelieve think that what We delay is better for them. Indeed, We delay for them only that they will increase in sin, and for them a humiliating punishment.
3:179 | Allah will not leave the believers in that which you are till He shall distinguish the evil from the good. Allah will not let you see the unseen. But Allah chooses from His Messengers whom He will. Therefore, believe in Allah and His Messengers, for if you believe and are cautious there shall be for you a great wage.
3:180 | And do not let those who are greedy with what Allah has given them of His Bounty think it is better for them, but rather, it is worse for them. They will be coiled in that which they were greedy on the Day of Resurrection. And to Allah belongs the inheritance of the heavens and the earth. And Allah is Aware of what you do.
3:181 | Allah has heard the saying of those who said: 'Allah is poor, but we are rich' We will write down what they have said, and their slaying of the Prophets without right. And We shall say: 'Taste the punishment of the burning'
3:182 | That, is for what your hands have forwarded. And Allah is never unjust to His worshipers.
3:183 | Those (the Jews) who say: 'Allah has promised us that we do not believe in a Messenger unless he brings to us an offering that fire consumes' Say: 'Indeed Messengers have come to you before me with clear proofs and with that of which you spoke. Why did you kill them, if what you say is true'
3:184 | If they belie you (Prophet Muhammad), indeed other Messengers before you were belied who came with clear proofs, and the Psalms, and the Illuminating Book.
3:185 | Every soul shall taste death. You shall be paid your wages in full on the Day of Resurrection. Whoever is removed from Hell and is admitted to Paradise shall prosper, for the worldly life is nothing but the enjoyment of delusion.
3:186 | You shall be tried in your wealth and yourselves, and you shall hear much hurt from those who were given the Book before you, and from those who are idolaters. But if you are patient and cautious, surely, that is of the firm affairs.
3:187 | When Allah took a covenant with those to whom the Book was given, (saying): 'You shall make it clear to the people, and not conceal it. 'But they threw it behind their backs and they bought with it a little price. Evil was what they bought.
3:188 | Do not think that those who rejoice in what they have brought and love to be praised for what they have not done do not think they will be secure from the punishment. And for them there is a painful punishment.
3:189 | To Allah belongs the Kingdom of the heavens and the earth. Allah has Power over all things.
3:190 | Surely, in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the alternation of night and day, there are signs for those with minds.
3:191 | Those who remember Allah when standing, sitting, and on their sides, and contemplate upon the creation of the heavens and the earth (saying:) 'Lord, You have not created these in falsehood. Exaltations to You! Guard us against the punishment of the Fire.
3:192 | Our Lord, whomsoever You admit into the Fire, You will have abased, and the harmdoers shall have no helpers.
3:194 | Our Lord, give us what You promised us by Your Messengers, and do not abase us on the Day of Resurrection. You do not break Your promise'
3:195 | And indeed their Lord answers them: 'I do not waste the labor of any that labors among you, male or female you are from each other. And those who emigrated, and were expelled from their houses, those who suffered hurt in My way, and fought, and were killed those I shall surely acquit of their evil deeds, and I shall admit them to Gardens underneath which rivers flow' A reward from Allah, and Allah with Him is the best reward.
3:196 | Do not let the coming and going in the land of those who disbelieve delude you;
3:197 | a little enjoyment, then, their shelter is in Gehenna (Hell), an evil cradling.
3:198 | But for those who fear their Lord, for them shall be Gardens underneath which rivers flow, there they shall live for ever, a (goodly) hosting from Allah, and that which is with Allah is better for the righteous.
3:199 | There are some among the People of the Book who believe in Allah, and in what has been sent down to you, and what has been sent down to them, humble to Allah and do not buy with the verses of Allah a little price. Those, their wage shall be with their Lord. Allah is Swift at reckoning.
3:200 | Believers, be patient, and race in patience, be steadfast, fear Allah, in order that you will be victorious.
